What's up everybody? Welcome to Crypto
Talk and Blockchain Walkman.
>> Hermanista.
>> Yes.
>> Talk in English.
>> Okay. So, Herman is working on a really
cool project that I caught the tail end
of. So, could you just tell us what EVVM
is?
>> EVVM is virtual state blockchains
inferral that can be deployed on any
chain as smart contracts. is like having
your own blockchain without notes.
>> So you said that you started working on
this in quiet in silence three years ago
because you saw where we were going to
be today. Where are we today and what
did you see three years ago? Well, three
years ago uh during an event that is
called it global h I hear Vitalik that
was leading the directions of Ethereum
saying that in the future we should not
consider gas as a problem because we'll
be extremely cheap. So uh thinking about
scalability and what happen in web two
like we have first dedicated servers
then we start balancing and sharing
infra like virtual private servers and
then the cloud. I I said okay we need
this also for blockchains. So we start
creating uh virtualization of
blockchains on a smart contracts what it
means execution uh that will be cheap.
So now uh L2s, L3s, upchains, subnets
and all these kind of configurations
could be deployed on chain on Ethereum.
So we share the infra of Ethereum. We
support it even more because we are
using it and the balancing will be
something automatic and at the end of
the day we are going to have the
blockchain as a cloud chain.
>> Okay. So you say that today your your
main users that you're seeing are banks.
Is this sort of like a a dystopian use
case or are you happy to be seeing this
type of user using EVVM?
>> I think it's good for banks because
banking is an example a clear example of
I have my customers. I I need to profit
from them and I have to give them some
benefits and maybe also by loyalty that
is also very very common in banks. They
will give more advantage to their uh
customers than to other people. So
imagine that now uh we have a a talk in
in New Jersey in the Linux Foundation
decentralized trust that was given by
entity data uh which uh with them we
have an agreement of working with banks
that we deploy in Hyperledger Visu that
is um a private blockchain uh a
consortium of banks blockchains. So this
this private uh blockchain shared by
them they had to deploy some infra they
wanted this configuration had an EVVM
for each one. So now they have their
customers using their own private
blockchain with their own products with
their own tokens. Each one of these is
communicated between them with the uh
permissioned products with different
maybe fairs different guilds for for
investing one to another. Mhm.
>> And they are connected through um
through a permissionless deterministic
bridge to mainet.
>> Awesome.
>> So there is an EVVM treasury deployed on
Ethereum. Now it's on test net because
this was a um approved yet to to be on
mainet. Uh and they can access and offer
their products to every user on the
ecosystem. So these users will be buying
products from the banks. They will be
also depositing liquidity for other
different benefits and at the end of the
day uh this is possible thanks to EVBM.
>> Awesome. Okay. So we're here at ETH
Boulder. Are you here for ETH Denver as
well?
>> Yes, of course. We are going to have two
workshops at ET Denver. uh one tomorrow
a talk uh in the scaling and privacy on
Ethereum event and uh in the X 402 event
also a an agendic on EVVM workshop and
then we will be in the main event in the
Akindo and Buffyorn pitchfest
rising capital invest in us we are on
preede
>> awesome um what's your general sense of
what Ethereum Ethereum Boulder is like
how are you enjoying the event and
what's something that you're really
you're really enjoying about Ethereum
Boulder
>> I think the proximity that we can have
uh between each other uh in the
conversations like this that we are
having now is something very cool. Uh
this this is possible in other events
let's be fair but not as much as here.
Here people is very relaxed. It's very
open to to listen to tell you what they
are doing. There is no rush. Uh it's
it's very the compressing to be here.
>> Uh no pressurey in any mean. So I think
it's it's a good place for come if you
are building if you are curious uh and
if you want to to learn.
>> It's not it's not a party event. It's
not a a place where you will say, "Okay,
let's go park." No, no, this is not this
is for builders trying to to build.
>> And I think that just kind of highlights
why this event is so great. I saw the
end of your talk at a very small
conversation, a very intimate
conversation, and you get to connect
with other people who will provide
insights into what you're building.
>> Yes. Yes. Of course. and and bring ideas
uh also give you some some advice some
directions if you are looking for it
there is very very valuable people
everybody's valuable but here they are
also
>> Edmon where can people go learn about
EVVM and where can people go follow you
>> uh they can follow me onx is are you
talking to me is my my my handle uh it's
difficult so better if you go and and
enter into evvm.info
to get all the information about thevm.
We have
evvs
libraries. We have a scaffold EVVM. We
have every a CLI deployer ready to use
and and have your own EVVM in five
minutes. You will pay less than a dollar
of gas in an L2, less than $5 on on
mainet. Uh do it with with a lot of
careful and enjoy it.
Ciao.
>> Ciao.